 
 
19 April 2021  
 
Legal Analysis of  the Austrian Freedom of Information Act  
Access Info  Europe is a human right s organisation focused on the promotion and protect ion of 
the right to information  across Europe . Its team has  extensive experience in analysing national 
access to information laws and offering advice for law reform.  Access Info also  runs the RTI 
Rating, which measures the strength of access to information laws and is widely used as an 
advocacy tool.  
Austria currently has one of the weake st right to information laws in the world and consistently 
ranks at the bottom of the RTI Rating , with a score of 33 points out of 150 . Due to this, Access 
Info welcomes the draft law amending the Federal Constitutional Act, the Court of Audit Act 
1948 and  the Constitutional Court Act 1953 and enacting a Freedom of Information Act .  
This draft law  brings with it some positive changes to the previous access to information regi me 
in Austri a: the  right to inform ation has now been elevated  to a constitutional r ight, there are no 
longer charges to submit  access to information requests, and the right now applies to all 
governmental agencies, including state -affiliated companies, not just administrative authorities 
like the previous law , and the right to access doc uments is introduced . Yet, just like the previous 
right to information law in Austria,  there still exists very weak areas a nd certain loopholes  that 
could weaken the right to information in practice .  
Access Info has carried out an  RTI rating  analysis of t his draft law, comparing it against 
accepted international standards. Whilst there are improvements from the previous law, this draft 
law only scored 57 points out of 150. The m ain areas of concern with this draft law are:  
 Limiting definit ion of information;  
 Weak proactive publication obligations;  
 Weak harm and public interest test applicable to exceptions ; 
 No independent oversight body ;  
 Lack of sanctions regime for non -compliance;  
 Only judicial appeal against refusals . 
 
The right to information is a basic fundamental right in itself. It is linked to freedom of 
expression, and has been recognized by the European Court of Human Rights, the Inter -
American Court of Human Rights and the UN Human Rights Committee. International standards 
and jurisprude nce have confirmed that information held by public bodies belongs to the public. 
The Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents states: “all official 
189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 1 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
2 
 
documents are in principle public and can be withheld subject only to the protection of other 
rights and legitimate interests”.  
The right of access to information is a fundamental human right both a proactive and reactive 
element:  
» Proactive  
The positive obligation of public bodies to provide, to publish, and to disseminate 
information abou t their main activiti es, budgets, policies and plans,  so that the public can 
know what they are doing, can participate in public matters and can control how public 
authorities are behaving.  
» Reactive  
The right of all persons to ask public officials for information about what they are doing 
and any documents they hold and the right to receive an answer. The majority of 
information held by public bodies should be available, but there are some cases where the 
information is withheld in order to protect priv acy, national security or commercial 
interests.  
With a legitimate right to information , a strong access to information law and the political will to 
implement a strong access to information regime , citizens can see how and  why governments 
make decisions. T his gives citizens  the ability to participate in decisions and hold public officials 
to account. According to the RTI rating, Austria currently has the worst access to information 
law in Europe. This draft law is an opportunity for Austria to bring its acc ess to information law 
into line with international standards. To strengthen the law, Access Info lays out below weak 
areas with recommendations on how to rectify them .  
1. Definition s of “information ” too narrow  
This draft law  defines information as "any record serving official or business purposes within the 
sphere of activity of an institution ." In practice, t his could be interpreted narrowly  in order to 
only give access to a specific set of information  held by a public body , rather than all information 
held by it.  
Recommendation  
» The definition of “information” should apply to all material  held by or on behalf of public 
authorities which is recorded in any format, regardless of who produced it. The language in 
the Council of E urope Convention on Access to Official  Documents is clear and would be a 
good source for this law: “ all information recorded in any form, drawn up or received and 
held by public authorities .” 
 
2. Lack of guidance on what should be proactively published  189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 2 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
3 
 
The law states that information of general interest must be published in a centralised information 
register. Information of general interest is defined as “information that concerns or is relevant to 
a general group of persons, in particular studies, expert op inions, statements and contracts with 
an object value of at least 100,000 euros .”  
In terms of information that falls within the public interest that must be published proactively, it 
is welcome that this includes studies, expert opinions and statements. I n terms of contracts, 
however this only concerns those with a value of over 100,000 euros, meaning that contracts 
below this value would not need to be proactively published. This threshold is too high and could 
allow the spending of large amounts of money  to be hidden from public oversight.  
While we also welcome the establishment of a centralised information register, the law is vague 
as to what exactly has to be published in this register, simply stating that “information of general 
interest” is to be pu blished. The right of access to information entails a proactive and a reactive 
component. The proactive component is the positive obligation of public bodies to provide, to 
publish, and to disseminate information about their main activiti es, budgets, polic ies and plans . 
Therefore, national access to information laws should not only include rules and procedures on 
how to submit freedom of information requests, it should also include lists of what information 
should be proactively published at the institution al level and state level.     
While this law does implement  an information register, details on exactly what should be 
published in it are lacking.  
Recommendation  
» The law should specify exactly what each public body is to proactively publish in the 
infor mation register. Annex I includes a non -exhaustiv e list of what the Austrian law should 
call for to be proactively published at the national  and institutional  level . 
3. Procedure for  submitting access to information requests lacks details and 
clarification   
The procedures for requesting lack detail , which could cause problems for implementation in 
practice. While an access to information request can be submitted “in writing, orally or by 
telephone, in any technically possible and foreseen form”  (Article 7.1) , which is welcomed,  the 
law lacks other necessary details, such as that it does not require an acknowledgement to be 
given to the requester upon receipt  of the request .  
While the law does mention  clarification of requests which are not clear  (Article 7.2) , it does not 
state that public officials should give any particular assistance in formulating requests beyond 
this. Nor is it stated that public officials are required to provide assistance to requesters who 
require it because of special needs, for exampl e because they are illiterate or disabled . 
When a body receives a request that it is not competent to deal with, the law states that the body  
can either transfer the request to the competent body, or the body  can refer the requester to that 
body. It should  be stated that public officials should transfer the request in this situation.  189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 3 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
4 
 
Recommendation s 
» Requesters should be  provided with a receipt or acknowledgement upon lodging a request 
within a reasonable timeframe, which should not exceed 5 working days  
» Public officials should be  required to provide assistance to help reque sters formulate their 
requests in general if needed, as well as being required to contact and assist requesters where 
requests that have been made are vague, unduly broad or otherwise need clarification.  
» Public officials should be  required to provide particular assistance to requesters who need  it 
because of special needs, for example because they are illiterate or disabled.  
4. Timeframes need to be brought into line with international sta ndards   
The law states that information shall be granted “without undue delay” , but it does not specify 
that responses should be provided “as soon as possible” and the maximum timeframe for 
responding to an access to information request  is four ( 4) weeks , which is at the longer end of 
European standards  (an average of 15 working days) . The right of access to information is a 
fundamental right, and so public bodies should be obliged to prioritise answers and to respond as 
swiftly as possible.  
In addition to  this, the law allows for an extension  of up to four ( 4) weeks on the rather vague 
grounds that “information cannot be granted in the period [of 4 weeks]” and does not explicitly 
state that this extension may only be used once . 
Recommendation s  
» The law sho uld specifically state that requests should be dealt with “as soon as possible” 
rather than “without undue delay”.  
» Regarding time frame  extensions, the law should specifically state the grounds for applying 
such an extension and that it  may only  be used once.  
» When extensions are invoked, the  law must require that requesters be notified and provided 
with the reasons for the extension , as well as details of how to appeal to challenge the 
extended timeframe for responding . 
5. This law is trumped by so me federal and land law provisions  
The law explicitly states that F ederal or Länder  laws on access to official or business information 
shall remain unaffected by this law  (Article 16). This is out of line with international standards. 
As stated above, the  right of access should apply to all material  held by or on behalf of public 
authorities, with only internationally accepted exception s applicable.  
Recommendation  
» The Freedom of Information Act should prevail over other legislation and over any 
restricti ons on information disclosure in other legislation to the extent of any conflict.  
6. Harm and public interest test or time limits to exceptions not explicitly stated  189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 4 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
5 
 
Article 6 on Secrecy contains the exceptions applicable to access to information. Austria has 
neither signed nor ratified the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents, 
and the exceptions contained in this law are not in line with the Convention. While the 
Explanatory Note explains that these exceptions are subject to  a harm and public interest test, 
this is not explicitly stated in the law text itself.  
In addition, w hile it is welcomed that partial access is granted to documents where only parts of 
it are covered by exceptions, it doesn’t specify that refused informa tion will be released once the 
exceptions cease to apply.  
Recommendation s  
» Austria should sign and ratify the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official 
Documents.  
» The law should follow the Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Docume nts, 
which lays out the following internationally accepted exceptions to access to information, 
which are all subject to a harm and public interest test:  
Each Party may limit the right of access to official documents. Limitations shall be 
set down precisely in law, be necessary in a democratic society and be proportionate 
to the aim of protecting:  
a) national security, defence and international relations;  
b) public safety;  
c) the prevention, investigation and prosecution of criminal activities;  
d) disciplinary investigations;  
e) inspection, control and supervision by public authorities;  
f) privacy and other legitimate private interests;  
g) commercial and other economic interests;  
h) the economic, monetary and exchange rate policies of the State;  
i) the equality of parties in c ourt proceedings and the effective administration of 
justice;  
j) environment; or  
k) the deliberations within or between public authorities concerning the 
examination of a matter.  
Access to information contained in an official document may be refused if its 
discl osure would or would be likely to harm any of the interests mentioned in 
paragraph 1, unless there is an overriding public interest in disclosure.  
The Parties shall consider setting time limits beyond which the limitations 
mentioned in paragraph 1 would no  longer apply.  
 189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 5 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
6 
 
7. Refusal not ices are inadequate  
Article 8 states that if the information is subject to an exception (or only partial access is 
granted) , the applicant shall be informed of the refusal to grant full access within four weeks . 
Article 11 on legal protection however states that if access to the information is not granted, the 
body responsible for providing the information shall, upon written request from the requester, 
issue an official decision within two months after receipt of th at request.  The law also states that 
if access to information on matters of legislation is not granted, no notice shall be issued.  
There seems to be contradictory timeframes in place for granting refusals. In addition to this, it is 
unacceptable that the requester wo uld have to request the refusal notice, and that no notice is 
given regarding refusals of access to information on matters of legislation.  
When a refusal is given, t he law does not state that this refusal should  contain a full be legal 
explanation of the g rounds for refusal n or that it should provide information on how to appeal.  
Recommendation  
» A refusal  notice  should be issued  automatically within 20 working days. The requester 
should not have to request the notice.  
» This should apply to all access to info rmation requests.  
» When refusing to provide access to information, public authorities must a) state the exact 
legal grounds and reason(s) for the refusal and b) inform the applicant of the relevant appeals 
procedures.  
8. Third party consultation process insufficient  
In terms of third party consultation process, the law states  that third parties can be consulted if 
the provision of information interferes with the overriding legitimate in terest of another, in 
particular  
 to safeguard the right to protection of personal data,  
 to protect professional, business or trade secrets, or  
 to protect the intellectual property rights of persons concerned,  
The process  however  is not clearly set out, nor does it  explicitly  mention that thi rd parties should 
not have  veto power . 
Recommendation  
» Clear and appropriate procedures must be put in place for consulting with third parties who 
provided information which is the subject of a request on a confidential basis. Public 
authorities shall take into account any objections by third parties when considering requests 
for information, but third parties do not have veto power over the release of information.  
 
 189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 6 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
7 
 
9. No Information Commissi oner established under the law  
The law does not provide for a separa te oversight body , such as an Information Commissioner . 
Having an independent body charged with overseeing the implementation of the right of access 
to information is essential in a democratic  society. The only relevant provision in the law is that 
it stipulates that the Data Protection Authority  (DPA)  should advise public authorities on the 
Freedom of Information Act in matters of data protection. A democratic society needs to be able 
to find a balance between access to information and data protection – without the DPA advising 
on this in the absence of an Information Commissioner, it is likely that data protection with 
constantly prevail.  
International comparative best practice indicates clearly the benefits of an independent oversight 
body to provide  a specialist, fast -track, free means for the public to defend the right of access to 
information. The implementation of access to information laws is generally more effective where 
such oversight bodies exist, and they can provide valuable guidance to pub lic bodies in the early 
years of a full access to information regime.  
Countries in Europe which have independent oversight bodies, the models for which Austria 
might wish to study, include Croatia, France, Germany, Ireland, Serbia, Slovenia, Spain, and th e 
UK as well as the European Ombudsman as the EU level.    
Recommendation : 
» An oversight body should be included within the law and below is a checklist of 
recommendations for establishing an oversight body:  
Independence: The members of the oversight body  should be  nominated by either the 
executive or the parliament, and approved by the parliament following open hearings and 
process by which the public may make representations. There must always be at least 
three candidates for each position.  
Candidates : There must be a prohibition on individuals with strong political connections 
from being appointed. Professional expertise should be required.  
Term : Members of the oversight body  should be appointed for at least 5 years and have 
security of tenure during  this period except for major breaches of the law and 
incompatibilities.  
Financial Independence : The oversight body  must be able to propose its own budget for 
the future year, subject to parliamentary approval.  
 
Mandate & Powers: the mandate and powers of  the oversight body should include the 
following:  
Appeals : The oversight body receives and decides on appeals against administrative 
decisions;  189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 7 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
8 
 
Binding decisions : The decisions of the oversight body are binding and must be 
complied with or challenged in court; if not complied with, sanctions may be imposed;  
Powers of inspection : The power to both request copies of documents and to enter the 
premises of public bodies and review documents;  
Review of classified documents : The right to review documents that have been 
classified;   
Declassification of documents : The oversight body can order revisions to classification 
of documents / can recommend revisions to classification;  
Structural Remedies : The oversight body can orde r structural remedies in public bodies 
(such as improved record management, more training, etc.);  
Sanctions : the oversight body can impose sanctions and these must be paid or challenged 
in court;  
Education : the oversight body is mandated to ensure that rel evant public officials are 
educated on the Freedom of Information Act ;  
Awareness Raising: The oversight body is charged with raising awareness about the law 
and educating the public;   
Monitoring implementation : The oversight body  is charged with collecti ng data from 
public bodies so that it can monitor implementation of the Freedom of Information Act ;  
Reporting : the oversight body must present a report to parliament, that shall also be 
public, on an at least annual basis.  
 
Oversight of Proactive Publicat ion: The oversight body should be charged with supervision of 
proactive publication requirements, including:  
Receiving complaints from public on proactive publication;  
Reviewing proactive publication ex -officio;  
Ordering specific remedies;  
Ordering structural remedies (such as improving websites, improving record keeping, or 
conducting more training);  
Reporting on compliance with proactive publication requirements in its annual report.  
Advancing the Right : The oversight body should be charged with having a proactive role in 
developing the right of access to information in Austria . To this end it should be empowered to:   189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 8 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
9 
 
Develop Criteria : the oversight body can develop guidance on implementation and 
criteri a for interpretation of the Freedom of Information Act ;  
Propose Legislation : The oversight body can propose l egislati ve reforms / changes to 
implementing regulations to the executive and relevant parliamentary committees;  
Initiate and be a party to Litig ation : The oversight body can participate as an amicus 
curiae or similar in relevant court cases in which it is not a party.  
10. There only exists a judicial appeal and the grounds for appeal are limited   
There are two different procedures concerning appeal ing a refusal to provide access to 
information from public bodies and private bodies obliged to provide information (Non -
sovereign foundations, funds, institutions and undertakings). Grounds for appeal however are 
limited and there only exists a judicial a ppeal, there is no appeal to an independent oversight 
body.   
Recommendation  
» Requesters should have both the right to lodge an external appeal with an independent 
administrative oversight body (e.g. an information commission or ombudsman) as well as a 
judicial appeal.  
» The grounds for appeal to the oversight body  should be broad (including not only refusals to 
provide information but also refusals to provide information in the form requested, 
administrative silence and other breach of timelines, charging ex cessive fees, etc.).  
It should be explicitly stated that in the appeal process the government bears the burden of 
demonstrating that it did not operate in breach of the rules . 
11. Lack of sanctions for non -compliance  
The law does not  contain any sanctions for those who do not comply with the law. In addition, as 
stated before, there is no independent oversight body to oversee the access to information regime 
and to administer sanctions for non -compliance.  
Recommendation  
» An independe nt oversight body should be created to oversee the implementation of access to 
information by public bodies and to administer sanctions.  
» Sanctions should be imposed on those who wilfully act to undermine the right to information, 
including through the una uthorised destruction of information.  
» The law should put in place a system for redressing the problem of public authorities which 
systematically fail to disclose information or underperform (either through imposing 
sanctions on them or requiring remedial a ctions of them).  189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 9 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
10 
 
» The independent oversight body and its staff should be granted legal immunity for acts 
undertaken in good faith in the exercise or performance of any power, duty or function under 
this law.  
» There should be legal protections against imposi ng sanctions on those who, in good faith, 
release information which discloses wrongdoing (i.e. whistleblowers).  
12. Promoting the right of access to information  
The law does not put in place specific measures for the training on and the promotion of the right 
of access to information. This is an essential part of ensuring not only that public officials know 
how to implement this right in practice, but that citizen s are aware of their right to information 
and know how to use it.  
Recommendation  
» Public authorities should be required to appoint dedicated officials (information officers) or 
units with a responsibility for ensuring that they comply with their informatio n disclosure 
obligations.  
» A central body, such as an information commission(er) or government department, should be 
given overall responsibility for promoting the right to information.  
» Public awareness -raising efforts (e.g. producing a guide for the public  or introducing right to 
information  awareness into schools) should be required to be undertaken by law.  
» A system should be put in place whereby minimum standards regarding the management of 
records are set and applied.  
» Public authorities should be require d to create and update lists or registers of the documents 
in their possession, and to make these public.  
» Training programs on the right of access to information should be obligatory for public 
officials.  
» Public authorities should be required to report ann ually on the actions they have taken to 
implement their disclosure obligations. This includes statistics on requests received and how 
they were dealt with.  
» A central body, such as an information commission(er) or government department, should 
have an oblig ation to present a consolidated report to the legislature on implementation of the 
law. 
 
 
 
 
 
 189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 10 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
11 
 
Annex I  
Information to be proactively published : at national level and by institutions  
 
I. National Level Publication of Information and Data  
At the national level,  all the following information should be available, either on a centralised 
website or data portal, or on the website of the relevant ministry. For key information, the data 
should be collected from all relevant public bodies and private bodies performing public 
functions and published centrally to ensure that it is easily findable and accessible for the public.  
1. National Laws, and draft legislation  
- All national laws and statutes available online, in consolidated versions as in force along 
with history of modifications.  
- Draft laws prepared by administration as well as those being considered by the national 
parliament, along with details of timeframes, op portunities for comment, structured 
participation processes.  
2. Government Budget & Spending  
- National government budget with planned expenditure for the upcoming year  
- Income, included detailed tax income data  
- Updated budget with actual expenditure  
- Expendi ture reports, detailed, regularly updated, and available for previous years  
- Audit reports and evaluations (all historic copies must be available)  
3. Judicial Information  
- Database of court decisions  
- Data on civil, criminal, and administrative court processes , including on timeframes and 
on outcomes  
4. Election Data  
- Election Results  
- Results by constituency / district for all major national electoral contests.  
5. National Statistics  
- Key national statistics on demographic and economic indicators such as Gross Dom estic 
Product (GDP), or unemployment and population statistics.  
- Census data  
- Trade data: Details of the import and export of specific commodities and/or balance of 
trade data against other countries.  
- All SDG datasets not covered by other categories here, g athered in one place, in an open 
data, easily accessible format.   189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 11 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
12 
 
6. Health Sector performance  
- Statistics generated from administrative data that could be used to indicate performance 
of specific services, or the healthcare system as a whole. Including, mort ality and 
survival rates; levels of vaccination; levels of access to health care; health care 
outcomes for particular groups; and waiting times for medical treatment.  
7. Education  
- Data on performance of education system ; Test scores for pupils in national 
examinations (not only rates of approvals); School attendance rates; Teacher attendance 
rates.  
8. Crime Statistics  
- Statistics on levels and nature of crime, with high granularity on types of crime and 
geographical data, which should include, specifically:  
o Gender crimes data  
o Attacks on freedom of expression: data including attacks on and killing of 
journalists, human rights defenders, and environmental activists  
9. Media and Internet  
- Data on radio and broadcast licences issued along with all official data on  viewing 
figures  
- Data on Transparency of Media Ownership (all media outlets)  
- Data on state funded advertising  
- Data on levels of internet access (disaggregated by income, gender, age, race, ethnicity, 
migratory status, disability, geographic location, etc .)  
10. Environmental and Climate Change data  
- Environmental Impact Assessments  
- Emissions data  
- Air quality data: data about the daily mean concentration of air pollutants, especially 
those potentially harmful to human health.  
- Water Quality: data on the qual ity of designated drinking water sources and 
environmental water sources.  
- Biodiversity monitoring data  
11. Migration  
- Data on immigration and emigration  
- Data on integration, employment, and well -being of migrants  
12. National Geo -Spatial Data  
- A geographical m ap of the country including national traffic routes, stretches of water, 
and markings of heights. The map must at least be provided at a scale of 1:250,000 (1 
cm = 2.5km).  189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 12 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
13 
 
- Database of postcodes/zipcodes and the corresponding spatial locations in terms of a 
latitude and a longitude.  
- Data on administrative units or areas defined for the purpose of administration by a 
(local) government.  
13. Land Ownership  
- Land ownership data (cadastre): Map of lands with parcel layer that displays boundaries 
in addition to a l and registry with information tenure of all parcels of land.  
14. Transport Data  
- Transport data with details of when (times) and where (stops) public transport services, 
such as buses and rail services, are expected to operate.  
15. Public Procurement  
- Detailed information on public procurement processes, criteria, number of participants, 
amounts tendered, and outcomes of decision -making on tender applications with details 
of the bid and the awardee  
- Information regarding minor contracts (those issued with no tend er process) with the 
names of contractors, values of contract, details of work to be performed  
- Information on other agreements signed, with details on parties, purpose, value, term of 
duration, and amendments  
- Copies of contracts and agreements, interim rep orts, modifications of contracts, interim 
and final evaluations, and reports on completion of contracts, audit reports.  
16. Company Register  
- Database with all registered companies along with details of owners and annual 
accounts and reports from each registe red company.  
Beneficial ownership register, with details of all owners including the ultimate, 
beneficial, owners of every company.  
17. Weather Forecast  
- 3-day forecasts of temperature, precipitation and wind.  
- All historical weather data as collected by the  national meteorological agency.  
18. Right of Access to Information  
- Annual report on compliance with the right of access to information, with data on 
requests, including timeframes for responding, exceptions applied for refusals and all 
other relevant data.  
- Details of all appeals against refusals, including the decision of the independent 
oversight body (Information Commissioner, Transparency Council, Ombudsman’s 
Office, or other body as relevant).  189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 13 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
14 
 
- Details of all court cases relating to the right of access to information (constitution 
and/or law), with the decisions of each court in the appeal process collected in one 
place.  
 
II. Institutional Level Publication of Information and Data  
This section sets out the information – including documents and data – that should be available 
on all public bodies and other bodies performing public functions and/or operating primarily 
with public funds. The data should  be made available on websites th at permit it to be easily 
accessed institution by institution. This can be achieved a central, searchable website, and/or on 
the websites of each body.  
 
1. Institutional Information  
- Legal basis of the institution  
- Internal regulations  
- Description of functions and powers  
2. Organisational Information  
- Organisational structure, which should include key personnel, such as the head of the 
body and each department  
- Property (real estate) held by the public body  
3. Operational Information  
- Strategy and plans (annual  and multi -annual)  
- Programmes with specific goals, activities  
- Evaluations of compliance and results  
4. Policies, Acts, Decisions  
- Decisions, regulations, resolutions, agreements, other formal acts, particularly those that 
directly affect the public and/or constitute an interpretation of law or have legal effects.  
5. Budget Information  
- Budget – planned and actual  
- Income from all other sources (services, property, international organisations, etc.)  
- Expenditure reports, detailed, regularly updated, and availabl e for previous years  
- Audit reports and evaluations (all historic copies must be available)  
6. Public Procurement and Contracts  
- By institution if not in a centralised database:  
- Detailed information on public procurement processes, criteria, number of partici pants, 
amounts tendered, and outcomes of decision -making on tender applications with details 
of the bid and the awardee  189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 14 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
15 
 
- Information regarding minor contracts (those issued with no tender process) with the 
names of contractors, values of contract, details o f work to be performed  
- Information on other agreements signed, with details on parties, purpose, value, term of 
duration, and amendments  
- Copies of contracts and agreements, interim reports, modifications of contracts, interim 
and final evaluations, and rep orts on completion of contracts, audit reports.  
7. Grants and Subsidies  
- Information on the beneficiaries of grants and subsidies, the objectives, amounts and 
reports on implementation and evaluation  
8. Expenditure on Travel, Missions, Entertainment  
- Travel exp enses (transport, accommodation, meals, entertainment, other) of all senior 
and mid -level public officials  
- Summary of expenditure of all other public officials on  
- Meetings, events, and entertainment expenditure  
9. Public Officials  
- Names of senior personnel and their responsibilities along with their profiles, career 
information  
- Salaries of all ministers, elected officials, senior public officials (including politically 
appointed advisors), judges, directors of publicly run private companies, etc.  
- Salary scales by posts for all other officials  
- Assets declarations and conflict of interest declarations of all ministers, elected officials, 
senior public officials (including politically appointed advisors), judges, directors of 
publicly run private com panies, etc.  
10. Open Meetings  
- Information on meetings including which are open meetings and how to attend these 
meetings;  
11. Decision -Making & Public Participation  
- Copies of draft policies, decisions, and regulations along with evidentiary reports and 
impact assessments being used in the decision -making process, along with the time lines 
and decision -making moments, so as to permit public comment  
- Information on how to participate in structured consultation processes and, after each 
process, a report on how th e public input was taken into consideration  
12. Interest Groups & Lobby Transparency  
- The agendas of all senior public officials  
- Minutes of all meetings held with lobbyists and other interest groups  
- Institutional / national lobby register   189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 15 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at
16 
 
13. Public Services, Complaints, Whistleblowers  
- Descriptions of services offered to the public, guidance, copies of forms, information on 
fees and deadlines;  
- Contact information for public, including citizen support/information service  
- Information on how to make formal comp laints about the body, including institutional 
level mechanism and/or contact information of a relevant ombudsman’s office or 
similar  
14. Datasets & Statistics  
- Datasets and statistics gathered by the body should be indicated on the website of the 
body, and e ither available for download or with links to the relevant open data portal  
15. Publications  
- Information on publications issued, including whether publications are free of charge or 
the price if for sale  
16. Transparency & the Right to Information  
- Information on  the right of access to information and how to request information, 
including contact information for the responsible person in each public body  
- Publication of requests received, information requested, appeals and outcomes  
 
 
 
 189/SN-95/ME XXVII. GP - Stellungnahme zu Entwurf (elektr. übermittelte Version) 16 von 16
www.parlament.gv.at